In today's video, I'm going to show you
why most back tests are lying to you and
how you can actually use AI to properly
back test your trading strategies,
helping you become a more profitable
trader. We're not just going to use
simple Trading View back tests since, as
you'll see later in the video, they're
basically useless. Instead, we'll be
training our own AI model with complex
math logic completely with Claude code.
This way, we'll have a proper back
testing engine that can actually adapt
to unseen market data to help you become
a better trader and ultimately use the
same systems as quant and hedge funds.
So, make sure to stay until the end of
the video so you can see how you can
build this out and test it out for
yourself. And make sure to subscribe if
you're interested in more AI trading
content. Now, like always, I'm not a
financial adviser and this is not
financial advice. I'm not guaranteeing
any profits in this video. I'm just
simply showing you how you can use the
power of AI to improve your back testing
and ultimately your trading strategies
as a whole. So, why do normal back tests
fail so badly? Well, it's from a trap
called curve fitting. When you test a
strategy on years of historical data all
at once, your bot is basically
memorizing the past. It's like giving a
student the answer key the night before
an exam. They're probably going to get
100%, but they don't actually know how
to do the math. When you see people
flexing these massive Trading View back
test returns online, it's generally
because they worked backwards to find
the perfect cherry pick settings on a
very specific time window. So to fix
this, we're going to be building a
walkport analysis engine with Claude
code. This is going to be a huge step up
from the fake 300% back test returns you
would typically see on Trading View. So
with this new engine, rather than
letting the bot cheat, the walkboard
analysis forces the model to train on a
very small window of data. Then it will
lock its settings, then train on the
next few months of completely unseen
data. The back testing algo will
basically tell us if our strategy will
survive the real world since it's not
working with all of the historical data
all at once. Now let me go ahead and
show you how this back testing engine
works. So here on the lefth hand side,
we can set all the settings. So first is
the ticker and then we can also choose
the start and end dates for when we want
the back testing window to start and
end. Then below this we can set the
actual walk forward windows which is the
training window as well as the blind
test window. So the training window here
which is for 12 months or a year is
where the bot is allowed to basically
look up the answers. So during this
one-year period, it optimizes thousands
of different parameters to find the
exact combination that produces the
highest profit or sharp ratio. So this
is basically just what a normal trading
view back test does. But because we're
building our own engine, we want to go a
step deeper and that's where we use this
blind test window. So once we find the
perfect settings from the training
window, the settings are permanently
locked and then the bot is pushed into
this blind test window. So you can think
of it like for 12 months we're finding
the perfect settings based on those 12
months of data. Then once we do we're
going to run that same exact setting on
3 months or the next 3 months of blind
data. Now because this 3month chunk is
data that's never been seen before. If
the strategy was just faking it right
from the past 12 months then it'll lose
money here. If the strategy actually
does have an edge then it would also
apply in the next 3 months. And then
once this three months of testing is
over, the entire engine walks forward
and then repeats everything again. Hence
the walks forward analysis. Now if
that's a little confusing, this right
hand side basically explains everything
once again. So here with the problem of
traditional back testing, it's basically
that it uses all the historical data at
once. So if we were to run this back
test from 2018 to 2024, it would look at
all this data for the past seven years
and then find the best settings, which
again is something we don't want to do
because the point is just because you
get the highest return in the past
period does not mean that it's going to
be the best strategy moving forward. So
what we're doing here instead is the
same process of finding the best
parameters. So like traditional back
testing but only on a one-year window
and then using those same best
parameters on 3 months of unseen data.
So down here you can visually see what's
happening. Basically from 2018 to 2024
we're going to group all those chunks of
data into folds. So the first year is
going to be from January to December
2018. This is going to be the entire
training window. And then for the next
three months, so January, February,
March of the next year, 2019, is where
we're going to apply the best settings
from the initial training window. And
then all we're going to do is repeat
this once again. So for the next 3
months, we're going to use the past 12
months of training data, then look at
the next 3 months completely blind,
apply the same parameters to see the
true performance, and then rinse and
repeat until we reach all the way to the
end. Now, the strategy here we're using
is pretty simple for the back test. I'm
sure you've seen it a million times
before. All this basically does is say
that when RSI crosses above the entry
and the price is above the 20 period
SMA, then long. In traditional back
testing, we would look at the entire
data set from 2018 to 2024. And then
based on this entire historical period,
we're going to find the best RSI numbers
and entry lines. And then you obviously
think in your head like, wow, this was,
you know, a great strategy. It was able
to dodge the 2020 crash and then also
capitalize on the 2021 bull run. And you
would think that it predicted the
market, but again, we just gave it an
answer sheet and it found the best
possible combination that doesn't
actually apply to present day. But
instead, with a walk forward analysis,
we're going to find the best RSI numbers
for this one year, then apply it blindly
to the next 3 months, see the true
performance, and then finally, what I've
added here is just simple transaction
costs. We'll have like slippage and
exchange fees. So now if we go ahead and
click this run walk forward analysis, we
can see that it's actually downloading
the data and then testing each fold
individually. So we have 19 total folds
from 2018 to 2024. So just to summarize
on the timeline, we have 19 folds. So
this was the start from January 1st,
2018. And as you can see, we first do
the insample training and then the blind
test. In sample training, blind test. So
3 months all the way down to present day
or 2024 in this case. Below this here we
can also see the best RSI parameters
being chosen in each fold. So fold one
had an RSI period of 21 7 10 21 etc. But
below this is where the real magic
happens and what truly differentiates
this back testing engine from just very
standard trading view one. So if you
look at these results it's pretty insane
right the difference on the retail back
test. It's showing basically almost a 3x
return and it's basically telling you
that this RSI strategy is a gold mine.
You would have made a ton of money. Uh
you have a sharp ratio over one and
barely a five 6% draw down. But then if
we look at the walk forward analysis,
this strategy just completely falls
apart. So when it trains on data that
it's never seen before, it's only
returning 5% which is obviously very
very different from 199%. Furthermore,
if we if we scroll down, we can see the
return degradation, it's basically
saying that 75% of this total return, it
was just completely fake and created by
curve fitting. So to sum it up, in the
traditional back test here, it was
basically looking at the entire 5 years
of data, crunching millions of
combinations to find the optimal RSI
parameters and applied it, you know,
historically to get this massive return.
But if we were to run it live, it would
completely fall apart. In this walk
forward here, what we did is apply a
little fold. So each fold we tested on
ideal parameters and then blind tested
and repeated this 19 times to get the
true performance and how it would have,
you know, behaved assuming that it
didn't have all the data beforehand. And
then finally, I know I've hammered this
through like a billion times, but just
to show you visually one last time, this
blue chart is what the retail back test
looked like, and this orange chart was
the real performance. So again, massive,
massive discrepancy. So basically, all
this tells you is that this RSI strategy
is fundamentally weak. Even if you were
to optimize the past 12 months with the
perfect RSI parameters, you still
wouldn't be making any real money
because RSI is a lagging indicator. And
this is obviously huge because we just
saved ourselves from an extremely bad
strategy. Now, let me go ahead and show
you how you can build this yourself so
you can begin testing out your own
strategies and potentially even find new
ones to trade on the market. Now that
you see why traditional back testing is
basically useless, let me go ahead and
show you how you can build this walk
forward engine from scratch. And before
we continue, if you want a more detailed
guide and templates on how to back test
with AI, as well as improve trading
performance with AI tools like Cloud
Code, make sure to click the link in the
description for my community, as we have
complete guides on how you can actually
use AI to automate your trades and
improve your performance. So, starting
off, you don't need to know how to write
Python code at all. We're basically
going to have Cloud Code do all the
heavy lifting for us. So, all you want
to do is open up Visual Studio Code or
VS Code. Then, once you're in Visual
Studio Code, go ahead and click open.
And all you want to do is open up a
blank folder. And this is where all the
code for your back testing engine is
going to live at. So, if you don't have
a dedicated folder, just click create
new folder. Now that we're inside our
blank folder where we're going to build
out the back testing engine, the first
thing we need to do is add Cloud Code to
VS Code. So, all you need to do is go
over to plugins right here and then
search for Claude Code. If it's not
already installed, you can just go ahead
and click install here and it should pop
up sooner or later on this top bar right
here. So once you have Cloud Code
installed, just go ahead and click open.
So after opening up Cloud Code, if this
is your first time, it's just going to
ask you some setup questions, settings,
and then for you to log into your
account. And if you don't want to log
in, you can also just use Cloud Code via
API as well. But now assuming all goes
well, what we have is a completely blank
claude code screen where we can now
begin to prompt uh what we want to build
and in our case a very robust back
testing engine. So next what I have here
is the prompt that we're actually going
to use to build out our back testing
engine. So what we want is to build the
entire streamlit dashboard. We also want
the sliding window walk forward engine.
So basically all the things I showed you
in the beginning of the video as well as
just a very basic RSA strategy that I'll
show you how to tweak later on. So going
through this one by one I'm just saying
build a professional walk forward
trading app in Python using streamlit
plot lead and Yahoo Finance. For the
asset you can change this to any ticker
you want but we obviously have spy from
January 2018 to today. Then again like I
mentioned the strategy will be that same
simple RSI crossover strategy which we
will upgrade later on. Uh for the back
tester once again we want to prevent
curve fitting. That's why we have this
to be trained on a 12-month rolling
window and then tested on the 3-month
blind window. And then to evaluate the
performance we only want to stitch the
out of sample returns together to get a
true measure of how the strategy did.
For risk management we want to make sure
that we're actually factoring in the
transaction cost. So we have 0.1%
exchange fee uh and slippage. Then
finally for the UI we want to show the
progress for each of the folds. This way
we know all of the data that's being
chunked together and what is actually
happening on the back end. And then just
like the beginning of the video I've
added some uh charts and this is to more
so visualize how this back tester works
versus a more traditional method. Once
that all looks good to go just go ahead
and click run and let cloud code
basically do its magic. It should first
install any dependencies that you'll
need for the application. So in some
cases you'll need to install Python. And
after waiting a few minutes, we can see
it's gone ahead and built the app. So we
can just open up this URL to see the
progress. Uh but in terms of the
strategy, it's the same simple RSI
crossover strategy with costs. We have
the walk forward engine that rolls a 12
month training period with a 3-month
testing window. And then again, only the
out of sample returns are stitched
together. Then finally, we have the
dashboard that basically shows all of
the progress and what we're testing in
terms of the strategy and the returns.
Now, again, this is just the previous
app, right? We have the same failed
returns, uh, 5.8% versus almost a 3x if
we did a traditional back testing route.
But let's go ahead and update the prompt
so we get something a bit more tangible
and useful, uh, rather than just relying
on this lagging indicator for RSI
crossings. Now, if we were on Trading
View, we would basically keep tweaking
the RSI numbers until we saw a green.
But since we want to behave just like
institutions and quants, if the
underlying math is weak, then what we
should do is just take it out and
upgrade it. So, that's exactly what
we're doing here inside this new prompt.
All I wrote was that the walk for engine
proved the retail RSI strategy fails on
unseen data. So, what we want to do is
just completely rip out the RSI and
SMAs, and we're going to replace it with
a volatility scaled momentum indicator.
And this is going to be based on average
true range instead. And then we'll
smooth out the price action using a two-
pole Butterworth filter. So here I'm
just saying build a volatility scaled
momentum indicator using ATRs. We want
to filter the price noise with this
butterworth filter. Now one small nuance
if you do want to use a similar strategy
is that typically when you work with AI
coding agents, they love using this filt
filt rather than L filter which is what
we want. Now, this filt filt function
here does make the chart look perfectly
smooth, but one issue is that it
actually uses future price data. So,
it's basically just using future prices
to calculate today's indicator, which is
a massive look ahead bias. So, by using
L filter here instead, we're basically
guaranteeing strictly casual forward
only math. And this is just to help stop
the AI from hallucinating fake returns.
So, once this looks good, let's go ahead
and run it. and then see our updated
back testing engine on a completely new
strategy. So we can see in the to-dos
it's basically replacing the RSI SMA
logic with volatility scaled momentum.
Then it's going to update our dashboard
with labels, sidebars, tables for the
new strategy and then finally actually
run the walk forward back test on our
completely new approach. So here you can
literally see all of the changes in the
code that the AI coding agent is making
for us to reflect this new strategy that
we want to implement. Now we can see
what was built. I'm not going to go
ahead and open up the dashboard again
because it's going to show the same
exact type of charts. Instead, I just
have a text summary here. So again, what
we did was rip out all the RSI SMA logic
and replaced it with more institutional
grade logic instead. So here we have a
two- pole Butterworth low pass filter
average to range and volatility scaled
momentum. And now looking at the
results, this is honestly probably the
most important lesson. Once again, just
really showcasing what I talked about in
the beginning of the video. So, if we
looked at the in sample illusion back
test, this had over a 1,500% return,
which again would be massive. So, if
someone basically showed the strategy,
it would seem like a guaranteed money
maker. And that's because we are using a
bit more of a legitimate strategy that
is actually adopted by a lot of
institutions. But once we go back to our
reality which is the walk forward
analysis, we can see once again that the
true return is not 1,500%
rather 7% if it was testing on blind
data. And as you can see the sharp ratio
did basically collapse. And this
basically proves that you can curve fit
all you want advanced institutional math
as easily as you can curve fit like a
basic lagging RSI indicator. Adding
complex math does not magically create a
profitable edge. And if you do truly
want to find an edge in the market, it's
going to take a lot of back testing and
true back testing, especially with
something like a walk forward analysis
versus just believing these numbers that
people, you know, typically show with
their returns. So the point here is that
the markets evolve constantly. So by
using tools like claude code, you can
actually create a meaningful back test
that isn't used to show, you know, a
beautiful chart that just goes straight
up. The goal is to ultimately find out
if the strategy that you have will
actually make you money in the markets.
Now, if you found this video helpful,
make sure to like, comment, and
subscribe since I'll be covering
everything AI trading and investing
related. Uh, so I'll be going over all
the latest tools like Cloud Code and how
you can actually apply them to either
your trading performance or your
investments.